an Israeli soldier recounting his
actions during a raid in Gaza
City Body cam video from last November
sparked widespread outrage it revealed
the soldier discussing how he repeatedly
shot an elderly Palestinian
man
the victim was 73-year-old ATA ibraim
who was a well-known disabled man in the
refugee camp where he
lived his relatives say he was deaf and
his attempts to communicate by sign
language were
futile
we were in touch with him since the
start of the war when the Israeli
soldiers invaded al-shati area we lost
contact during the first truce we asked
neighbors who said he headed south we
were shocked to see his images on
TV Witnesses told Al jazer the entire
neighborhood served as a temporary base
for Israeli soldiers during the course
of their operations at least 50
Palestinians were killed and their
remains are buried in a mass grave many
homes were raised as Israeli forces
pulled out the Israeli government has
confirmed soldiers were in the camp at
the time and they
investigating the family of the disabled
Palestinian are still searching for his
remains and if they're successful hope
to give him a dignified burial Axel
zovich Al
jazer salut is joining us now from
occupied East Jerusalem so uh when
Israel says that it will investigate
this incident I mean where where are
they in that process and what do we
expect will
happen well Darin Al jazer has reached
out to the Israeli Army on Saturday
morning to get more information about
the situation that we saw in this video
the Army had responded by saying they
would check but we have not heard
anything back since however one Israeli
media Outlet did receive a response from
the Israeli military after submitting
their own inquiry in which it said they
are opening an investigation into the
matter they say that Israeli forces were
operating under what they describe as a
complex situation in the Shala refugee
camp and that an unarmed man was shot
because he was quote thought to be a
terrorist the statement Ends by saying
that there will be an investigation this
video is incredibly and deeply
disturbing an Israeli soldier
essentially boasting about killing this
unarmed 73-year-old elderly Palestinian
man who we have learned is both deaf and
mute and the soldiers around him also
really congratulating him on the matter
offering words of praise the soldier was
also saying himself that the sly man was
waving his arms in front of him to
perhaps show that he did not have any
weapons on him and the Israeli military
says they're looking in to the incident
but the video itself really the images
speak for themselves yeah and if to put
this into context ham this is not the
first time that Israel is accused of
killing civilians and in this
manner in the nearly six months of this
war the Israeli Army has not once
acknowledged an unlawful killing of a
Palestinian in fact there are several
incidents the Israeli Army says they are
investigating and looking into in a war
that has seen the deaths of more than
31,000 Palestinians the Army not
acknowledging once that any of those
deaths were on lawful there are a few
instances that the Israeli Army has said
they're looking into matters I mean just
last week we saw the flower Massacre
when that happened the Israeli Army
changing their story quite a few times
essentially absolving themselves of any
blames and rather deflecting it on the
Palestinians who were seeking this
life-saving humanitarian Aid since they
are essentially starving the Israeli
Army saying that the massacre that had
happened was essentially their own fault
additionally back in December the
Israeli Army is accused of executing 19
Palestinian civilians in Northern Gaza
when Al jazer did ask the Israeli Army
about this they said that they didn't
know the details of this event as
described and they categorically denied
that as well those Palestinian accounts
but and then gave us their version of
the story saying that the military had
evacuated civilians in the building they
were encountering Palestinian Fighters
there at the time but we also want to
mention that the one time the Army has
acknowledged that they made a mistake
was when they killed three of their own
captives and then this prompted the
Israeli Army Chief of Staff to say that
the militaries open fire regulations do
not permit soldiers to shoot at those
who are surrendering those waving a
white flag those dropping their weapons
those waving their arms so this soldier
in this latest video essentially
bragging about
not following the status quo of the
Israeli Army when it comes to their open
fire rules and regulations so while the
Israeli Army says they are investigating
several matters often times we don't
hear anything back as a result of those
investigations and this particular
incident the Israeli Army has not yet
released any findings okay thank you
hamda salut reporting for us from
occupied East Jerusalem